---
title: Legal Geographies of Intellectual Property
image: 
categories: [articles]
tag: 
author: "Dr Jenny Kanellopoulou"
---

> Focus of the collection: We invite book chapter proposals of up to 500 words for an edited collection on the Legal Geographies of Intellectual Property.  


Legal geography, as a law and society approach, concerns the co-constitution of law, space, and power (Petterson 2022) and its rubric is to highlight 'the law-place-people nexus across space and time' (O'Donnell et al, 2020). Socio-legal and critical legal scholars are constantly re-discovering geography's appeal, addressing issues ranging from the spatialities of injustice in the broadest sense (Delaney, 2016) to more traditional disputes related to a designated place (e.g. housing, landlord/tenant disputes, property transactions), issues related to the regulation of the public versus the private place, and issues pertaining to tangible forms of property (Kanellopoulou, 2020). However, research and scholarship remain rare in 'Intellectual Property law and geography' (Trimble, 2021). In IP law, geography is more readily associated with the study of Geographical Indications and the particular properties of *terroirs*/ places of origin. The aim of the edited collection is to reach further into the theoretical and empirical relations between IP law and geography, by developing new lines of inquiry. 
We therefore invite contributions that will identify and examine novel theoretical, conceptual, and methodological approaches for the spatial study of Intellectual Property, by bringing together innovative, place-informed, and thought-provoking contributions that cover all aspects of Intellectual Property.   

Building on spatial legal thinking as introduced by legal geography, this edited collection aims to set and answer questions pertaining to the relationship between Intellectual Property and the concepts of place and space; chapters can investigate and question the places where Intellectual Property is created, protected, experienced, consumed, and litigated, or attempt to redefine the legal spaces created by Intellectual Property in the broader sense.  We seek to address topics that stretch the spatial confines of the study of Intellectual Property, including chapters that adopt the point of the view of the IPR owner and other multi-stakeholder approaches.  The ultimate purpose of the collection is to introduce new ways of thinking, studying, practicing, and applying Intellectual Property, as an area of law that is in direct communion with its spatial surroundings.  

To this aim, proposed chapters can address (indicatively): creativity and place, legal geographies of the international intellectual property system and colonisation/decolonisation, the geographical aspects of the principle of National Treatment, the protection of place as IP's subject matter, geographical aspects of IP courts, the relationship between the place of creation and the place of consumption for IP subject matter, empirical issues in spatial IP, as well as contributions on the spatial legal theory of Intellectual Property. Proposals for theoretical chapters, literature reviews, empirical research findings, and case studies, and from across jurisdictions are all welcome.    

Submission procedure: Please email your book chapter proposal to [j.kanellopoulou@mmu.ac.uk](j.kanellopoulou@mmu.ac.uk) and [smita.kheria@ed.ac.uk](j.kanellopoulou@mmu.ac.uk) by the deadline of ***15 September 2023. *** Proposals should contain an abstract of around 500 words that clearly explains the focus, theme, and content of the proposed chapter. In addition, it should include a provisional title, the full name(s) of the author(s) and institutional affiliation(s), as well as any key references. If you'd like to have an initial conversation about your idea for a chapter then we warmly welcome informal inquiries, and discussion, in advance of the deadline. 
